I'm Ben voltar I'm with github their
government evangelist which means that
my role is just to make sure
and government agencies want to take
their first or second step into the
world of open source that they have a
good experience that the open source
community has a good experience and that
ultimately that everyone involved is
successful and so when I started about
two or three years ago the the kind of
the conversation in the open gov
community was what is open source and
why should we care and over the past con
a couple years I think that's really
shifted less so to what is open source
and more so to everyone's talking about
open source all the talks here say you
know go check out github for the code
but I don't know how to do that
successfully so I'm hoping to spend some
time today talking through kind of 10
patterns or anti patterns of what I've
seen in open source projects in
government and how you can kind of do
them or avoid them to be most successful
that sounds like fun and something
interesting and making sure that you're
in the right room sound good awesome and
feel free I want this to be interactive
i want i'm here to be as helpful as i
can for you so if I'm talking too slowly
for example please feel free to raise
your hand and let me know and interrupt
me and shout out if you have any
questions or anything like that so you
so if you fall asleep or if you leave
early there's there's two things to kind
of take away that kind of the central
thesis here the first is that open sores
is not the same thing as published
source right simply taking code and
putting up in an ftp server and
forgetting about it and never ever
looking at it ever again does not make
an open source project right open source
software is the concept of a software
that anyone can and shin and is able to
modify a shared coast-based right that
that not only can i grab that code but i
have the right to do certain things with
that and i can modify it right and the
idea is that it's open to everyone and
that's open to anyone but the idea of
open source kind of it goes a little bit
further than that the idea of open
source is not just that I have the right
to modify that code but I also kind of
there's this expectation that I have the
right to propose changes to that code
but it's kind of a discussion that we
can go back and forth but there's a
little bit more of a dialogue and you
kind of can take the idea of open source
and bring abstract it into the idea of
collaboration where anyone can
contribute to the project whether its
source code whether it's data whether
it's policy whatever it might be and
what makes all that possible is version
control right get svn / for subversion
whatever you might be using
the idea that there's some sort of
software underlying all this that tracks
who made what change went if you're in
office context you might be familiar
with SharePoint you might use Dropbox
whatever it is in the open source
community we use version control and
that's how you know that anyone in the
world can propose a change that you can
accept that change and your servers not
going to explode and like spiders come
out of it because there's some sort of
virus didn't or something like that
gives you the confidence to know that
what you're doing is safe and makes
these kind of communications
collaboration this conversation possible
the second takeaway if you fall asleep
is to optimize for developers right you
can have open source without having
executive oversight you can have open
source without having policy guidance
but you can't have open source without
developers and most importantly you
can't have open source without code so
lots of government agencies or if you're
in a kind of a brigade talking to a city
the first kind of question you're in
here is well what's the governance for
this right we need a 15-page policy
document and that's optimizing the wrong
thing that's optimizing for the
bureaucrats and government and you can
do that and you're going to have a bad
experience for all the kind of things we
talked about in a moment instead I would
argue that think through the user
experience of what a developer might go
through just like you might think the
user experience of a website what is the
developer experience of contributing to
your open source project optimized for
that and force the government to absorb
the complexity of that ideal experience
in order to make it better for
developers even if that means it's a
slightly harder burden for the side of
government so today I want to break out
kind of the the best practices the
secrets into two big categories one for
internal collaboration and one for
external engagement on the internal
collaboration front the idea here being
is you can't be come from a closed
source mindset right you can't be
entirely waterfall you can't you know
have zip files flying around on cd-rom
drives and USB sticks and say okay we're
going to go open source down right there
has to be some sort of rethinking of the
internal processes at the government
agency or if you're advising that
government agency and helping them out
you need to go through and actually
spend some time thinking through what
the business workflows that business
processes work like before you make any
changes the first idea is that the
technology is the easy part right it's
not a question of can we put this in a
git repo it's not a question of can we
expose this on the Internet it's not a
question of can we track who made what
change when these are all solved
problems that the open source community
literally solved
Cades ago right instead the challenge
comes from the idea that you're really
using open source is a vehicle for
organizational change to rethink the
relationship between the government
agency and its citizens and oftentimes
between different business units within
the government agency once the idea is
you can't be a close source government
agency with a closed source culture and
then just kind of flip a bit to make a
project public and assume all of a
sudden you can have this really really
great open source projects the one
fundamental thing you have to do is go
through and start thinking about open
source projects internally thinking
meaning projects that mainly may never
see the light of day may never be
publicly available but you're running
them like an open source project to get
people use the idea of sharing things
more openly and to build the workflow in
the process he is necessary to support
that the second idea is to start small
and go through the motions right I like
to say that organizations have a muscle
memory right and just kind of like our
own muscle memory you wouldn't just
start running a marathon without first
training for it you would probably die
there'd be a really really bad thing
organizations also have that same muscle
memory an open source is that marathon
right you can't just say okay we've
never done open source ever anytime
before we're doing this new big open
source project it's this big flagship
initiative it has a policy component
we're hoping to be on the front page of
the New York Times for this you know our
local you know a mayor's coming in and
he's going to hit commit to publish the
repo you can't do that right you will
you are setting yourself up for failure
because you have this whole giant
organizational immune system that the
one thing it's really good at is saying
no on every step of the way it's going
to start to say no and you're gonna get
pushback on that so if there's a high
likelihood you're going to set and
you're going to fail right there's a
high likelihood that all these different
kind of parts of the organization are
recognized antibodies or see antibodies
that they don't recognize and start
saying no find something small that you
know is not going to fail that you know
if it does fail no one's going to care
and kind of go through the motions of
that process right so maybe you can do
something in private like the the best
places to get lunch around your office
the best coffee shops your your family's
chocolate chip cookie recipe do it in a
private repo and start getting
non-developers involved all the people
in the kind of life cycle and open
source project that you need to convince
to get to guess legal procurement ethics
is customer service service depending on
what the project might be
if you're trying to convince attorney to
that that open source is safe and that
github is safe and that it's okay that
members of the public are changing the
code for the website it's a lot easier
to say hey remember when you submit a
pull request to add your grandmother's
chocolate chip cookie recipe and I
approved it just like that I need to
still approve it we're still in control
because we're talking about very
abstract concepts when you get down into
the tangible when you can give physical
examples things get a lot easier and the
last is to when I say start small is you
should be shipping 0.1 not one point oh
right so the thing you get out the door
for the first time shouldn't be this
whole fancy new whiz-bang website but
maybe the wireframe for that website
maybe that is the ia concepts maybe some
user experience testing you did again
find things that are very very small so
you can go through the motions and learn
how to open source internally and then
how to scale up to that big kind of
whiz-bang release it you want to do the
third best practice for internal
collaboration is to minimize information
imbalance and what I mean by that is
think about open source as growing a
community right you have a community of
stakeholders that care about your code
or they care about the problem that your
code is trying to solve right but
developers are people to something we
often forget in government right
oftentimes the stakeholders that are
inside the firewall inside the
government agency or the squeaky wheel
right they have direct access the
project manager the program manager all
the kind of stakeholders there's a
weekly meeting maybe it's a status
meeting maybe it's a conference call I
want to know what's going on with XYZ
project I get an email in my inbox every
Monday right whatever it might be
they're kind of there's two different
classes of contributors within this
community which creates an information
and balance right so maybe inside the we
see who I have access to roadmaps I have
access to additional documentation I can
just go and tap Bob on the shoulder and
ask him his opinion on something and
then you have another developer outside
the firewall that spends three weeks
building an awesome pilled pull request
to add a feature that he thinks is
awesome and you get to it me like oh
yeah we discussed this at the private
meeting last week sorry we decided not
to do this that developer just wasted
three weeks of his time and you can bet
that he's never or she's never going to
contribute another pull request to your
project so the kind of the way you solve
for that is you push everything outside
the firewall you work outside the
firewall you don't use any tools
internally
collaborate that the rest of the
community doesn't have access to put
everyone on equal footing what that
means practically is that you have one
issue tracker right it's not that you
have the github issue tracker outside in
public and you have a JIRA issue tracker
internally that's the real issue tracker
that's kind of what you give to your
contractors that you only one way to
provide feedback right so if someone
emails the project manager and says hey
Bob I noticed that I click the side bard
and didn't do anything I think this is a
bug Bob shouldn't then go and say great
thank you very much and like do whatever
is it say hey it's on github here's a
link to the issue tracker do you mind
opening an issue on that right all of a
sudden then everyone starts to get on
the same page and if you do have to have
conversations in meatspace conversations
in purpose person this happens in
government it's still very much part of
the culture to try to minimize those so
not like a regularly scheduled meeting
or if you do have them just memorialize
them open up an issue add something to a
wiki that says hey we had a meeting we
brainstorm something we felt that a
higher fidelity medium would be more
appropriate this is the decision we made
and this is why we made it does anybody
else have any thoughts to at least kind
of open it up to the broader community I
know kind of some baby steps that some
agencies take if they do have to have
that weekly in-person meeting they'll
have a phone bridge and they'll publish
the number to that foam bridge online
it's not ideal because if I'm in a
different time zone halfway around the
world I still have to dial in it's an
international call but it's least a step
in the right direction to try to
minimize information and balance day to
day that means filling out documentation
so that I know is this project actively
developed right I know if I'm work at
the agency I know Susan got fired so the
project's dead if I'm out in the
community I just don't see any commits
communicate that basic stuff how to
submit an issue how to contribute to the
project how to commit a fixed
enhancement and the long term and this I
think one of the most crucial parts that
you rarely see in read means and project
documentation what are the long-term
goals of the project what are you
actually trying to solve for are you
trying to solve one specific thing and
then you're gonna shut down the project
is this thing going to be funded through
2080 what's the philosophy what what are
your requirements what are your features
do you have a wish list of things that
you might want that I can contribute to
again just all those kind of things that
are organizational knowledge trying to
memorialize them and push them outside
the firewall as much as possible number
four this is one of the I think the most
important and one of my favorite it
comes from a colleague of mine one of
the early get
hub engineers Ryan Tamiko who says that
open source has certain constraints
right if you think about open source
open source software is rarely two
people working out the same thing at the
same time rarely in the same place at
the same time often not from very
different cultures and yet open source
has empirically proved to create better
software than its purpose built and
proprietary counterparts right so what
from those constraints of open source
from the way that open source has to be
built can you then take kind of inside
your firewall to work more like an open
source project and so he came up with
four constraints the first is it says
that everything needs to be electronic
right you use high fidelity mediums that
naturally capture an exposed process so
that's chat that's slack that's maybe
not email if you have to use email
things like Google Groups but that's not
that's not conference calls right that's
not things that automatically capture
everything when things are electronic
and automatically then makes it so that
other people can be participate in the
process second everything an open source
is transparent right once you have
everything captured in this electronic
medium every decision that's ever
happened in any open source project has
a URL I can go to that URL I can see why
the decision was made who argued for
what what you know what the winning
argument event eventually was so when
other people come into the project later
on all you have to do is send them a URL
and they see the project's status the
process around it real-time and going
forward forever third is that it's a
synchronous right you don't have to have
a meeting at nine a.m. on monday if i'm
in a different time zone if i have a kid
that i need to take to school whatever
it might be i can do things asynchronous
mini then meaning they're not blocking i
don't have to require someone to sign a
you know letter to let me open up a pull
request i can do things at my own pace
and more support late without the
agency's permission which is so again
just a feature of version control
there's no tapping someone on the
shoulder and saying hey I have a
question about this because that
interrupts them and then again people
not part that conversation and last and
I think this is one of the most
important if you forget about all the
rest is that informal right when you get
a pull request on github it's not dear
sir or madam I'm in receipt of your PO
request dated 27 October it's like yo
dude awesome pull request emoji animated
gif right it shows that you can be
professional without being
normal right and I think that's really
the crux of open source that people have
a good time people enjoy it but it's not
you know racist it's not you know is you
know it's not people aren't being
inappropriate you're still professional
but you don't have to have that kind of
rigidity and that allows you to adopt
more cultural constraints rather than
policies and technical constraints so
there's certain features of kind of the
the github in the open source community
that yes you have the permission to do
it right technically I could submit a
pull request to github / get up like
github com that says you know remove
everything that's white and make it pink
you know whatever something stupid like
that the reason I don't do that is not
because I don't have the physical
permission to change the background
color and also that it's a stupid idea
but the fact that I know if I did that
the rest of the community inside github
of the kind of open source project and
quotes that is github com would make fun
of me right like that's a stupid pull
request don't do designing stuff go do
government stuff this is not for your
for you and so even though I have
permission to access that part of the
code base I would never touch that cart
or days because of kind of those
cultural constraints and those cultural
norms and the advantage of that is maybe
I go and get a degree in design and I'm
a really great designer maybe Pink's a
popular color of 2016 whatever it might
be I then am empowered to go submit that
change when I know it's right without
having to like ask someone and fill out
a form and take a test and jump through
all sorts of Hoops those cultural
constraints can change as the culture
changes where technical constraints
can't change without human intervention
on the last of the internal kind of best
practices is about when you open source
the code right when you start sharing it
outside your firewall the idea is that
you should open source problems not open
source solutions and oftentimes in
government we really like to do the
latter when when developers get involved
with the project it's because they want
to contribute to a cause right we have
this philosophy and government that Oh
we'll put it up in will open source it
and a bunch of people will write the
code for us for free so we don't need to
hire government contractors it'll be
awesome that's not how open source works
have you approached it with that
philosophy you're not going to get
really get results the example that I
like to use is you think of open source
like a political campaign right people
volunteer for political campaigns we're
heading into 2016 campaign cycle in the
20 I'm doing the math wrong on this one
the 2012 and 2008 campaign cycles
president obama's slogan was not yes we
did it wasn't guys i came up with a
great plan to solve
I implemented it were good elected me
president right no one's going to
volunteer for that campaign because
there's not a cause for them to get
behind they're not something for them to
contribute to but the slogan their
politics aside was yes we can please
come help me and that's the kind of
implicit part of any open source project
is there's a problem out there right i
I'm WordPress and I want to publish a
blog and I think that if we work
together to make a blog platform we can
make a better blog platform right so if
you need if you have this if you have
the problem of needing a published blog
post come work with me and we'll make an
awesome blog publishing platform right
that's how open source works not I've
made the best published blog publishing
platform in the world please come fix
some bugs right like no one wants to get
behind that people get involved with
open source because there are shared
challenges that they want to solve that
they can't solve on their own and so the
kind of the rule behind this the metric
behind this is if you're happy with your
code when you shift it you've probably
shipped too late and this is kind of
another way to state that ship 0.1 not
ship one point oh right you want to get
something really really bad really the
crappy maybe just one step above I'm
embarrassed by this code out the door
and get people involved that like if you
really want to get help from developers
the best way to do is to troll them with
really really bad code like I am a
terrible terrible developer and I know
if I submit a pull request that's like
hey I think I might be doing this wrong
and I submit that 20 minutes later I'll
get like 15 pull request telling me how
to do it the right way and so that's the
idea start with the wrong answer and
you'll eventually get to the to the
right answer so before i get into
external engagement i'm going to pause
there and do a quick stop for questions
for comments for feedback i think yeah
yes they are online speaker calm / ben
vaulter I'll also tweet them out if you
if you follow me or follow me anyways it
helps my ego it's it's so we have it was
we use chat ops at github and we have
chat apps that fought the track how many
followers everyone has and so will tell
me like I need 10 more followers to beat
my colleague John to get more followers
in him and graphs it out using graphite
so if you could follow me would it would
help my graphs made my stats
speaker calm / Ben Balter and it's
called the best practices and open
sources like that are also tweeted out I
just at Ben Beltre on the twitters Oh
was there a question too because if not
that was there's a good soft let's start
with yeah yes and so I like that a lot
so dated gov did this which i think is a
great example of this there's there's
kind of two ways to approach us there's
this kind of misconception that github
is only for developers and that the only
way you can engage the community is to
to put code up there right github is a
social network for software developers
if you want to engage Millennials you go
to Twitter you want to engage baby
boomers you go to Facebook you want to
gauge developers you go to go to go to
github and the idea there is you can
have a repo that I and I'd recommend a
lot of government agencies do this
that's just called feedback right and
say even before you at the wireframe
stage say we currently have a website we
have agency gov it's probably terrible
because it's a government website help
make us better and start opening up
issues for everything you see and then
maybe then your next iteration of that
is putting wireframes in the issues
there to get this is not a coder doing
all this this can be a project manager
webmaster whatever we know whatever type
person that that just can speak English
and respond to issues and then when you
get there then start putting wireframes
in place so so dated of did this where
before they even wrote a single line of
code the kind of designing team the UX
team got together and started putting
wireframes together for what they wanted
the next iteration of data gov to look
like put it up in a repo called to get a
github com / GSA / data gov and that
became a venture the repo where the code
was but there was a good couple months
of iteration where there was no code in
the repo they started to get support
from the developer community to get
feedback to get interested in the
project and the wireframes became better
as result so when they started writing
their first line of code not only did
they have this really vibrant community
already in place but they were able to
write better code because they were more
informed by the larger conversation that
happened before it so definitely you
should if you are in a position
culturally to do it you should start
well before you even write your first
line of code just give us feedback start
having the kind of dialogue
developers and then whatever kind of
collateral you have in your thought
process even if you're venturing and go
do it closed source you're going to go
out to a contractor maybe put your s 0 W
or your RFQ out on github for feedback
saying here's our feature list we want
these 17 things it's going to be any API
with xml and sam'l and you know you can
only use you govern email address and
people probably give you feedback on
that and I think that'd be very valuable
do one more question with that yeah
so I'm hoping to try to try to compile
some resources together to help you with
that as much as much as we can the short
answer is i would say twofold one is
exposure so if there's a city councilman
that's a little bit geeky that maybe
doesn't have a blackberry and like head
takes notes on an ipad or she takes
notes in our iPad invite them to your
next hackathon your next brigade meeting
any sort of thing that just kind of
expose them to show that open source is
not a bunch of hippies with tie-dye
laptops out of me on the west coast
right you're not when you share code
it's not like sharing an illicit
substance passing around a little ugh
drum circle it's how software is built
today on as much as you can manage that
expectation of this is what modern soft
about looks like and this is the way
that any fortune 500 any startup worth
venture capital funding would develop
software that will go a lot to show them
that it that the risk profile of open
source isn't what they think it is and
the second as much as possible to sit
down with them create a meeting with
them if you're kind of have that
relationship and say let's create a get
up account and let's just go through and
like star some repositories or like fine
little things you can do I'm going to
show them the value of github I use get
up pages for this a lot it doesn't have
to be get up you can even do it the open
source route and say like hey do you
need a blog like let's use WordPress
let's use Drupal for their for their
personal like here's pictures of me what
I eat for lunch kind of stuff and just
show them the the value of open source
and actually sit down and work through
them even getting there not a developer
I'm not talking like deploying to Amazon
or something like that but just walking
through and saying well so hey look
here's an example of something that code
for Boston did here's an issue and they
asked for feedback and here's all the
great feedback they got what if we did
that for X initiative that's coming up
and we use this as a platform to get
feedback and it's github is a gateway
job an issue actually the reversibility
issues are a gateway drug and marked on
the files and are a gateway drug to
doing more kind of getting more involved
the open source community so give them
an avenue and hold their hand like
literally sit down next to them and let
them do it on your laptop or or I helped
them with our laptop and let them dip
their toe in the water in a safe way
that if they screw up and they're like
oh I accidentally closed the issue you
know no one's going to care CNN is not
gonna report about that anything else so
yeah
yeah so on the federal level after
everything that the government creates
is public domain it was yours you're
asking if the agency wants to make a
close source is over you're asking or if
a citizen want to make a close source so
if so most open source projects about
every open source project will have an
open source licence the most popular
license in government and an open source
r is the MIT license and after that the
probably apache license if you want more
information on let's go to choose a
license com which is a website that we
maintain to answer this kind of question
and demystify the difference between
them but the license i mentally says
this project is open source you can do
anything you want with it just don't sue
me that's that's a sensitive the license
says and that into allows that if I and
if I contribute to the project I
contribute under the terms of that
license so if I'm a citizen I contribute
to a government project the government
could theoretically government legality
aside take my code and make a close
source because I gave them permission as
part of my contribution or if I am if
it's a government project I can then
build a business on that which is what
as Civic hackers we want the next uber
to be built on government data and so if
they take the code to make a close
source that would be a really really
good ideally I'd like them to contribute
it back but if their business model
requires them to take that government
code and make a close source so be it
the only caveat to all that is there's
two licenses the GPL and the a GPO which
are what are called copy let I'm getting
really in the weeds here but our
copyleft licenses which basically say
that if you contribute this if you
distribute any changes this project they
have to be open source as well with the
a GPL adding additional consideration
that if you host a service using this
code that service must be open source so
as long as the project is not GPL or
lgpl your fine clothes sourcing it is
the short answer and make sure to put a
lesson in your code if you're if you're
in the federal government it might have
to be public domain which simplifies
things even further but MIT Apache
choose Eliza calm ok so external
engagement so I talked all this entire
time about what happens inside the
firewall inward-facing i got 5 5 tips to
close things up on the kind of secrets
on the external facing stuff I'm
person who kind of touched on this a
little bit before is to expand the
definition of stakeholders right we
often think of contributors to an open
source project is being developers that
you get hub as a developer platform
right that's not the case right you
should really start thinking about this
whole whole big kind of Venn diagram of
potential contributors your project both
inside the firewall and outside the
firewall right if your upper grade
obviously have your brigade members
including developers designers UX
experts you have users right users can
can open up issues with bugs they find
but then even inside the agency you have
the kind of the executive stakeholder
you have some sort of a program manager
the press you know people that might
want to write about it and stress start
think so unless when I want to know
about subject matter experts right so
start thinking about all the potential
people that might contribute your
project in different ways on start again
optimizing the oh nice a developer
experience optimizing the open-source
experience for all those kind of
personas if you're if you're familiar
fee idea of like agile personas make an
agile personas for all these guys in
your mind are all these gals in your
mind and start saying okay if I am a
veteran user of this project I don't
know code I use this this this project
every day what kind of needs might might
I have I'll probably have faq I might
have a question about installation I
might have a question about where to
submit bugs so start thinking that
experience and there's lots of all sorts
of different opportunities to contribute
I'm on the far left side top left for
kind of like casual users kick the tires
does it work right we just released a
version 1 point 0 and the background is
now green is that actually true if it's
not please open up an issue and you kind
of go through all the different ways to
achieve it fleshing out documentation
you know providing feedback on proposed
changes all the way down to speaking
about your project right that's a really
really great value that that coach r
America can add to government projects
just telling the story of why this
project is awesome and getting other
developers involved all the way down to
click recruiting other developers so if
you limit yourself just to thinking that
that stakeholders that people that might
contribute our developers in the private
sector then you're significantly
limiting
the what the people you're optimizing
for and then as a result the community
and the vibrancy of your project the
second is to be the hub of a community
and encourage spokes around that and the
way you like to explain that to
government is that you are the host of
the Internet's most boring cocktail
party right so if you're the host of a
physical cocktail party what will you do
you stand someplace roughly near the the
door if it's me probably near the bar or
the food but you stand near the door and
when people come in you say welcome you
say oh hey I'm really glad you're able
to make it do you know Susan I think you
might like it along with Susan really
really well or like oh hey welcome you
know this Ching you just had a kid you
know congratulations you know go over
talk to those people right and so you
kind of have a couple different roles
you you you greet them as they as they
are procurable first you invite them
obviously but you greet them as they
kind of our new members to your
community you connect them with other
members of your community and you make
so save the resources they need oh if
you need to hang up your coat coat
checks right over here bathrooms over
there bars over there right your job is
not necessarily to be the one constantly
eating the food and throwing back all
the drinks and saying witty things your
job is to make sure that everyone at
your party has the ability to do that
you are you are there to enable their
ability to contribute and one of the
ways you do that is is stealing kind of
a mean from from traditional software
engineering is that non-blocking is
better than blocking right we say this
in software engineering to say that if
you of a process one process shouldn't
have to wait for another process to
complete they should both be able to
kind of work asynchronously in open
source is the same way I shouldn't have
to fill out paperwork in order to
contribute to the process project I
should be able to submit a pull request
you should be able to review it maybe
people might be required at some point
but it all steps the process try not to
require human intervention optimized for
the stereotypical developer coding at
3am with like Doritos Kong crumbs and
Mountain Dew cans all over his keyboard
right if that guy or gal can't
contribute to your project because they
need to dial eight at 9am to your your
conference call they're not going to be
able to contribute another kind of oil
you do that is you you be a matchmaker
right if you put out a data set you have
the opportunity to connect subject
matter experts people that really know
that data set really well if you're the
FCC maybe it's where radio towers are so
there's people that know radio tell is
really really well but they don't know
python they don't know Ruby they don't
know go and so if you can become dat
matchmaker and introduce people and say
like
mention this guy who is a expert in
radio towers he might be able to answer
your question all of a sudden you've
just empowered that developer is it to
do a lot more things and you can kind of
back away from that conversation and
you're no longer blocking it so
practically the way you get there is
you've got it you need to minimize
one-to-one interaction the default way
in government to interact with a
government open source project a website
if you have a question about at a data
set is emailing anonymous inbox at
agency gov right maybe they're humans at
the other end maybe no one checks that
because the person you should check that
left right there's no way to know the
problem with that is you're going to be
answering questions again and again is
this column month day year or your month
day right as you keep answering that
question again and again that's not very
efficient everyone knows that that in
today's technology age if you have a
problem the first thing you do is you
google it if you get an error message
you google it if you have a problem with
your iphone you google it putting things
in pushing things into issues into inter
repos makes things googleable so all of
a sudden I say FCC radio tower data set
month day year year month day I'm going
to find that issue and I've just got a
blonde answer without requiring a
blocking operation on the part of the
agency but that has then then some
additional kind of benefits all of a
sudden things start getting URLs so if
someone does email agency anonymous
inbox at agency gov I don't have to type
out the answer every time I just send
them to an issue and all of a sudden
they have the entire pedigree the entire
history of who asked that question how
it was answered why decision was made in
linking out to relevant issues and last
so then that way you can answer
questions once or even better if you can
get to the state where you actually
don't answer questions because someone
opens up an issue on your repository and
someone else from the community who's
already sees that same problem says oh I
parse the data set last night I the same
problem turns out it's year month day
not month day year here you go close the
issue all right and that's that's kind
of a place where you really want to get
and that's why you're here the host the
cocktail party is kind of making those
connections the third is is to minimize
friction friction is a metric that we
use at github both internally and in
terms of open source project which I
would define as the time it takes to go
from I want to contribute to I have
contributed right so if there's an open
source project and I found a bug in it
how long does it take me to like
actually do the thing it needs to do
right so first I need to find out what
is this thing what is this project
intended to
okay what language is it written in is
it written in Ruby great I know Ruby I
can respond I can help us in Ruby do I
need a lawyer right as if this giant
like legalese thing that says this is a
government project and you will go to
jail and the FBI will come after you if
you contribute right what is the what
does the documentation look like and
then this is this the big one for for me
is how do I bootstrap a local
development environment how much meta
work is involved with contributing so if
I find a typo on your website okay so
actually correcting the typo to change
tht eh to th e 30 seconds probably right
by the time i boot up my environment
everything how longs it take for me to
install PHP to set up a mysql server to
get wordpress installed all the kind of
things to see the database how long does
all that take and how much is that
relative to the thing i want to do if
the time it takes to do the setup is
longer than the thing i want to do
there's a high chance i won't do it and
then once i submit my improvement what
kind of metal work is involved with that
right how long's it take you to review
the improvement how what's that process
look like is it linger for six months
before finally somebody remembers that
they have an open source project that
they mean maintain and so try to think
about friction as much as possible
minimize friction again going back to
the idea of the developer experience the
force if the fourth is the idea of
decentralizing government right
governance don't you do essentially
that's that's your own thing you know I
food up so it's decentralizing
governance and the idea there is that
you don't need a perp meeting to merge a
pull request I know that there are
government agencies that every week they
have a you know scheduled regular
meeting on Wednesdays that's a okay
we're now going to have the you know
open source project meeting let's print
out all the pull requests and likes
creighton agenda okay now on to pull
request number seven a Kevin can you
reply with a thumbs up emoji to pull
request number seven plays great action
item done right that's how that's how
government traditionally works but
that's not how open source works you
don't need a meeting to go through all
that process the whole idea is to adopt
those constraints so you can do things
asynchronously you don't need a meeting
you don't need a suit to merge a pull
request right you don't need to be the
highest paid person in your part of the
organization right as much as possible
you should push Authority down to
developers to subject matter experts do
people empower them to make the
decisions that they should be making
without kind of approval right when if I
submit a poll
quest to get up calm / white house /
petitions the White House petitions
platform if I wanted to submit a
proposal of deport justin bieber back to
canada it's not like in the cheat in the
president's daily briefings like uh sir
we have a pull request to the petitions
repository we need your approval on this
right do you think we should change no
it's the president doesn't involve with
that it's some developer and it season
it he or she knows the code best as much
as possible try to push things and give
authority so the people closest to the
code whether developers or subject
matter experts and that's kind of a
corollary to that is that you need to be
a member of the community in order to
participate in right if you're just some
sort of bureaucrat and you kind of
aren't really familiar with the
day-to-day goings on the project because
you're don't really consider yourself a
member of the community gets a lot
harder so a lot of times you need to
have a role within your organization
who's not necessarily a community
manager but at least someone whose
day-to-day job is to worry about the
health of the project in terms of
responding to issues and performing code
reviews and accepting and rejecting
triple requests and carrying out the
long-term planning and making sure all
that is available to external open
source developers right if they're you
need to be a counterbalance to the
additional child of inertia in
government of doing things very
synchronously and very very very very
closed off the outside world the last
thing is to encourage contributors as i
said when i started out the right tooth
in contribute to an open source project
is entombed in in the open source world
it's not assumed in government right
open source developers have been bit by
very bad experiences of submitting quote
request to open source projects and
never hearing back or like having really
bad code and really bad experiences so
as silly as it is to say it's important
to let developers know that you want
contributors that's a line you read me
that says please contribute to our
project if you would like to contribute
here's the instructions how to do it and
go out of your way to encourage them
anytime someone submits a poll requests
the first time thank you very much
thumbs up emoji muscle symbol you know
USA flag right show them like if you are
the the cio of your state or your city
and someone in high school or college
submit support request to make a change
and the cio of the state says thank you
very much for helping us this is awesome
like that goes a long way to make sure
that they're going to contribute again
and again so in practice that means
documenting how to contribute making
sure the techno quirements are explained
how to run the project locally all you
read me
on a daily basis in terms of providing
constructive feedback and support
someone seemed it's a bad poll request
don't say this is not the quality of
pull request we're looking for that we
can't merger thinking much goodbye work
with them to get the pull request to
where it needs to go I said express
gratitude by commenting Whitney knows
you're emerging and then as you're going
forwards account you can put automated
technical systems in place to make sure
that this all happens without your
intervention see I continuous
integration adding Travis to your repo
right then all of a sudden if I'm not
fully if or not as versed as a technical
contributor and I'm need to review pull
requests as long as I see that green
light I know the website isn't going to
crash I can merge you a little bit more
confidence if I'm an external developer
I see the red light I get immediate
feedback without having to wait for the
agency to comment everyone familiar Fiat
concept of continuous integration and
Travis it's just automated tests that
run every time someone submits a
proposed change your posit ori provide
feedback on whether the proposed change
break things that are expected to work
previously and then one of my favorite
things that is very strong in the getup
culture and i'm starting to see go on
elsewhere is to minimize that friction
through shared tooling what i mean by
that is the you go to any github
repository both close sorcerer open
source repository is created by github
the company we have a script folder and
you'll always find scripts setup script
bootstrap scripts server and script test
regardless of its node or go or Ruby or
PHP I know I can go to any github
project so let's say I find a typo in
one of our internal apps we have an app
called team which is like a blog right I
find a typo in the team app I know I can
go get clone github / team I have no
idea what language it's in I say script
bootstrap if it's Ruby it'll run bundle
install if it snowed over on NPM in it I
don't have read any documentation I
don't have to think through all that
stuff it does it all for me I go to pick
up coffee I make my change I run script
tests tests or green I could spend my
poll requests i can run script server
again regardless of language i can run
it locally so provide that experience
for your external developers and say hey
you want to want to test this project
locally runs clone it run script
bootstrap you can test it locally and as
much as possible absorb the complexity
for your external contributors for them
there's a great blog post on the github
engineering blog about this we call them
jokingly internally scripts to rule them
all if you go if you go grab that so
that's all i prepared i wanted to
purposely leave some i know we have a
at a time left to leave some time for
for questions that we have any I glad to
go into more detail I can go into the
weeds about about licensing or anything
that I mentioned here and and so much
more but I definitely did I know this
kind of topic that has opinions and has
questions I want to make this as
interactive as possible so I saw the
puter guess yes so in the readme you'd
have how to contribute to the project
right and the instructions would say you
can't rip this project you clone a fork
though project create a descriptively
name feature branch and make your change
if you want to test your changes locally
the steps are script bootstrap make your
change script test and and the idea
there is i don't know node right i don't
know go and I see you just run this one
script that will install all the
dependencies think about it
mathematically right if the normal
process of installing Ruby and node or
whatever I need to run my project if
it's a larger project sitting up mysql
server and seeding it with with test
data takes 30 minutes from start to
finish right or maybe 15 minutes we make
it a little bit more realistic and and
if it takes me an hour to to build that
script to do all that in an automated
way as long as four people use script
bootstrap to set up the repository
mathematically you've broken even by the
how many during the fifth person you've
just created more developer time that
give people the opportunity to
contribute your project I mean also is
just a nice thing to do it's kind of
going back to that cocktail party
metaphor it's the welcome mat it's the
let me take my coat kick your coat for
you women being like there might be a
coat rack over there someplace build it
yourself right and so trying to try to
make it easier for them yeah
sure I apologize I forgot for the
previous question the question was where
does script bootstrap go for those for
the recording and all that kind of fun
stuff so the question was you have an
Android project and that has a client
and android client right and you have a
back-end that's written in Java or
whatever it is on how do you organize
those relative to each other I would
recommend you have an organization and
they're just both just individual
repositories within that organization
and that and probably in the
documentation they linked to each other
and say where they are the nice thing
about github issues is that you can
cross linked them very easily so if
there are concerns that probably affect
one other so if someone opens an issue
on the Android project and says you know
I hit this button and i get an error
message and they open you on the Android
side it's very easy to close that and
open an issue on the client the server
side and cross linked them the reason
that I would suggest that is because
generally speaking they're going to have
different setup environments right so
that kind of food strap which one would
that do if you ran it or in the
instruction to be like here's the
instruction set up the server here's
destruct it's just a general kind of
separations of concerns computer
engineering standpoint but more from
again go back to the idea of that
developer or open source experience is
is that if I if I were from an Android
developer and I care about the Android
side the application I can follow the
Android side the application I know
where to open up issues if all of a
sudden you start having Java code or
node or whatever it might be all of a
sudden gets a little bit more confusing
for me as a first-time contributor to
contribute I like to think of my head of
someone who's maybe their freshman in
college who just took their first
computer science class who's really
excited about algorithms and sees a way
to like improve something how do you
optimize the experience with them and
the less code you can have in the repo
the more specifically the tighter the
issues are to one another makes it a
better experience for that first time
could you like so the the person that's
contributed 15 times in the past you
don't need to help them out like they
know how to contribute so you optimize
for that first time contributor what's
what's the like escape velocity nasus
the amount of energy necessary to get
them from potential contributor to
actual contributor and optimized for
that in all situations so the suggestion
was if you have that kind of
client-server relationship to have a dev
server sitting up there someplace that
if I'm just want to test the Android app
I can I can do as many write requests as
many read requests and it will affect
production data and it makes it again a
better experience you're minimizing the
friction you're minimizing the metalwork
because if I know Android I don't have
to also know whatever language the
backend servers written it anything else
does anybody so this was kind of my list
that I came up with looking through
different government stories and helping
out different government customers are
there kind of stories from your own
experience I know that you know brigade
captain's hunter I'm sure have some sort
of war stories these were my tips are
there any other tips that you would
recommend that you've seen
anti-dependence you've seen a government
that you'd recommend that that people
should take back with them I got them
all on the first try that's amazing yeah
yeah no no by all means
sure so the question was how do you
delegate a developer responsibility to a
developer in terms of like proactively
within the repository so there's there's
kind of two sides that I'm talking about
the technical way to do that and then
the cultural way to do that so the
technical way to do that is you'll have
an organization with teams and so you
would be an administrator on the
repository and then any developers
whether their employees of the agency
employees of a contractor or people from
the community that have been
contributing enough that you start to
trust them right this natural phenomenon
is open sources you start submitting
pull requests they start getting
accepted eventually you say you don't
need me to review these anymore you can
start reviewing other pblicas so
internal external or kind of open source
community grant them readwrite access
the repository so they have the ability
to to review pull request merge pull
requests and empower them through
tooling CI through guidelines right this
is what our code standard is and make
sure that they have all the potential
resources they need to meet your
expectations right so if you say our
coding standard is we use the Facebook
PHP coding standard right like just make
sure that's in a repository that
expectation is clear but that that
doesn't mean they can't like a policy
questions come up in government open
source projects right so if going back
to the idea of the White House petitions
platform they'll we the people platform
maybe you delegate down to developer to
read changes to PHP that optimize
database connections right that's
obviously something that a developer
should be the expert on it should be
deciding on but then maybe someones
meant capote request that says is that
we're familiar with the White House We
the People petitions platform for use as
an example submit petitions and they
vote on okay someone says hey when I
submit a petition if the White House
says no to it 20 days later the petition
should open back up again automatically
right that's that's a policy question
and so the solution there is to make
sure expectations are set but people
have areas of responsibility so just as
if I'm a developer I'm not going
make design decisions if I am a policy
person I shouldn't be making developer
decisions and vice versa if I'm a
developer I shouldn't be making policy
decisions so I don't know that I would
necessarily go as far in the readme and
say if it's a policy question Bob
decides its developer question Susan
decides but to have kind of expectations
among contributors among a methyl group
of collaborators right of people that
have write access the repository that
they know there's a responsibility and
there's enough communication that you
can feel confident that there you know
they will have the again go back daddy
of technical versus cultural constraints
they will have the technical ability to
merge that pull request that says that
you know it automatically tweets out
every petition at the white house
rejects but you're confident that they
don't have the cultural ability to do
that because they'll use they'll lose
their developer status and you know that
that's it on the other side of that is
also you probably manage the deploys or
you or the deploy is probably a separate
process so even if something gets into
the code base that's objectionable the
great thing about get is there's get
revert and actually now on all poor
request there's a big pervert button on
every poll request and so you can you do
your code review on the pull request but
it's i like to say there's there's no
kind of security vulnerability and he
until your deploy so you can have bad
code on master but as long as you review
that but when you review all the teams
that were made before is deployed it
doesn't actually affect production it
doesn't actually affect how the
application works so long answer but
hope that helps yeah
yeah so the question was what's the best
way to get non technical types to give
them a introduction to get out so I have
a blog post that I can tweet out
alongside the slides as well if you it
might if you go to it it's a been Balto
calm and it's called 12 tools for non
developers or something like that the
idea is github is intimidating by
perception but not necessarily in
practicality right if you gives let's
say let's assume that someone so the
barrier sentry are creating an account
which means you go to github com / sign
up enter a username and password an
email address right if you've ever
signed up for any service online that's
not a hard fits it's intimidating
mentally because you're like well I'm
making a big commitment here you know
what if you know github is a bad person
or something like that right there's a
mental mental barrier there but
technically it's very easy to do and in
terms of contributing the the actual
like issue thing has developer e words
on it right it has merge it has
milestone it has you know things that
sound intimidating but practically its
title and body or if they're commenting
on something that's just a thread of
comments and there's a comment box if
they've been to any blog it's probably a
similar experience so a lot of that is
just holding their hand to the process
but practically you can build an
interface on top of github that doesn't
look like github but is github and
provides a good of experience so I have
a handful of little tiny 10-15 lines to
natural Heroku apps one of them that
comes to mind is called comment card
that I know 18f among other folks we're
looking at using for a while that kind
of start up within GSA that says okay
you don't have to know get up you don't
have no issues here's our website if you
have any feedback on our website here's
a white screen that has two boxes on it
title and description all you do is type
in title and description hit submit and
it takes care of everything they don't
realize in the background they're
actually submitting an issue and they're
creating a hold of forum and they're
getting subscribed to that but you can
provide little interfaces like that that
make it easier for non non developers
similar that I have a little app on
Heroku called word to mark down where
you just drag and drop a word file and
it makes it into markdown markdown is
kind of a lingua franca of open source
is how most documentation is work and
we're firing up word
your desktop word processor is the most
often way that any thing in government
starts wherever it is and so rather than
disrupting their workflow and saying
we're going to change the way you work
so you keep working the same way you are
we're going to build this one last don't
additional step that will take the way
you currently work in bridge it the way
that you hopefully you can work one day
and once they get kind of past that
intimidating factor they'll start to get
over that but if you have been deltacom
it's 12 tools for to help non-developers
use github or something that i can
probably pull it up while I that's a
next question yeah yes it would be very
possible so github the question is could
you do that for Excel spreadsheets
github automatically render CSVs if you
commit any CSV file to github and I'll
show it as a CSV to go from Excel CSV I
imagine would be possible I have a long
flight back so we'll see what happens I
don't know if I have it or not yeah
she's mean there's another there you go
so here's a handful of tools where de
marked on marked on a PDF right so if
you're like hey can you send me a
documentation and you send someone a URL
to a markdown file like I don't know
what this is right you send them a PDF
or like this is an enterprise-grade PDF
i can i can use this PDF now right
comment card is when i talked about
problem child which also kind of another
example of this you don't have to use
these particular apps these are all of
them are just proof of concepts like 10
lines problem child you it makes a
restful api for submitting get up issues
so you can make any sort of HTML form
right it could be you know submit a
suggestion of a restaurant near our
office or whatever might be and it's
just you know basic HTML when you get
post on that it'll actually open up an
issue in the backend include all the
different things that just bullet points
in the body of the issue can it before
yeah so i'm gonna go to the other ones
but there's there's lots of different
ways and all these are just example it
just quick proof of concept examples of
building an interface on top of github
on top of the the tools of the open
source community that make it less
intimidating that that kind of get rid
of the site where the other way you
could possibly do it is use a Chrome
extension or Firefox extension that just
like use CSS to hide all the noise on
the page but I think I think personally
I think it's more of an intellectual
very own mental barrier than a net
practical barrier and we're just about
time at anything any last dying
questions I guess I'll put out the
slides and put out a link to this if
it's helpful but well sweet well thanks
thanks for coming out I am like I said
my full-time job is helping government
agencies and helping Civic hackers be
successful what they do I'm going to
help her myself and I love geeking about
about open source if you can't tell so
I'm glad to stick around answer any
questions i think i had my my email
address up on there but it's just a
government at github com is my email
address if there's any way that i can be
helpful anytime you feel free to reach
out and i'll also be hanging out at the
get a booth we have lots of stickers and
get cheat sheets and mark down cheat
sheets which are really great
passive-aggressively put on your
co-workers desk be like i'm not saying
your bed and get I'm just saying next
time you need to rebase read this you
know so feel free to use us as a
resource because we we are here to
support you in the sports community so
thank you very much
you